# Number Guessing 100
Number Guessing 100 is a classic number-guesssing game in which you try to guess a random number generated by the computer.

### Video Demo: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4MMj0ekMcdw

## Game Description
In this game, you should try to guess a random number from 1-100 in ten tries. After every attempted guess of the number, the computer will tell you if the number is higher or lower than your guess. You use logic to lower the amount of possible numbers the random number could be until you either guess the correct number and win, or run out of your ten guesses and lose.

- If the random number is 50 and the user guesses 40, the program will print: the
  secret number is bigger than 40.
- If the random number is 50 and the user guesses 60, the program will print:
  the secret number is smaller than 60.
- If the random number is 50 and is guessed by the user, the program will print:
  You have guessed the secret, hidden number: 50! You win!

These statements assist you in guessing the random number and beating the game.

## Function Description
In my program I have created many functions to solve possible mistakes.

1. When a number is guessed, the bigger_or_smaller function will return if the guessed number is bigger or smaller than the random number
2. After every guess, the guesses_reduce function will return the amount of guesses you previously had subtracted by 1, until you either run out of guesses or guess the random number.
3. If the random number is guessed, the win_check function will congratulate you for guessing the random number in under ten tries and winning.
4. If you run out of your ten guesses before guessing the random number, the win_check function will tell you of your loss.
5. Once you have won or lost the game, the play_again function will allow you to either play again if you would like or stop playing the game and quit the program.
6. In the main function, I used a try and except block in a while loop to ensure the user is guessing integers using numbers instead of words. If the user types 'one' instead of '1', the program will ask the user to enter an integer as their guess. The except block will make sure the user does not lose a guess for not playing the game properly.

## How it works
First, the program uses the `random.randint()` function from the `random` module to generate a number from 1-100. Then, the user guesses a number in number form and the program will output if the guessed number is greater or less than the random number. The game continues until the random number has been guessed or the ten guesses given runs out. You may choose to play the game again when the game has finished and the program is asking you if you would like to play again. Simply type 'y' for yes to play again. You may play as many times as you would like. If you are done playing the game, you can answer 'n' for no when the program asks if you would like to play again. The program will then thank you for playing Dhanika Botejue's Number Guessing 100 and say goodbye using `sys.exit()` from the `sys` module.

## TODO:

#### Downloading
Download the Repository through Clone Respository or Download Zip
```
git clone https:...
```

#### Installing
After downloading, you should create a Python virtual environment and then run this command in the terminal to go to the project folder directory:
```
cd project
```

#### Usage
To run `program.py` type this command in the terminal:

```
python project.py
```
You can test the program with `test_project.py` by running this command:
```
pytest test_project.py
```

## Python Version
This program was made using Python 3.11.7.

## Files
- project.py: This python file contains the main file for the game.
- test_project.py: This python file contains tests I used for three of the functions in project.py, namely guesses_reduce, bigger_or_smaller, and win_check.

## Refereces
(do this in link format later)
1. random library
2. sys library



